This project is adopted from DATA3888 Data Science Capstone of the University of Sydney (2021 S1).

## Executive Summary

The year 2020 was one of statistical importance as epidemiologists, economists, and health professionals rushed to understand the nature of COVID-19 and its pronounced effects on society. From this, large volumes of data and statistics have been made readily available to the public, ranging from societal measures to financial metrics to health-related measures. This report aims to detail the methodologies used to aggregate these various interdisciplinary metrics into a single socioeconomic variable - a rebound score; we’ve deployed a Shiny visualisation dashboard around this rebound score to more easily explore and understand the impact of COVID-19 on different countries’ socioeconomic climates.

Our visualisation dashboard showcases various financial, societal, and health-related aspects of 61 countries as well as their final rebound scores. Different countries’ rebound score rankings show reasonableness and usefulness as they agree with external data rankings when cross-checked against external data sources. Featuring user-interface options that allow variables to be visualised together with smoothing options, our app will be helpful for our primary audience of retail and institutional investors in making geographical investment decisions in the short-term. It will also assist our secondary audiences of academic researchers in socioeconomics as well as the general public in informing and realising trends between different countries. Together, our overall results fulfil our aim in a clear manner for visualisation and comparisons.

## Background

The year 2020 was a disaster for global health. A previously unknown virus swept the globe, quickly establishing itself as one of the world’s leading killers. This virus is the novel severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-CoV-2 virus (coronavirus disease 2019) due to its high person-to-person transmissibility, incubation time, and ability to spread the disease. COVID-19 is a rare and challenging virus to handle as it impacts society behaviour, health systems, financial economies, and many other aspects. By understanding its impact on society, epidemiologists, economists and health professionals are taking timely and robust measures to minimize the impact of the epidemic on economic and social development. With our target audience in mind, we’ve chosen to aggregate different interdisciplinary indicators into a single socio-economic variable (rebound score) for our visualisation.

The project’s target audience is to provide retail or institutional investors with different countries’ socioeconomic recovery capabilities to assist in offshoring or outsourcing decisions that require analysis of geographical risk in the short-term. Our visualisation is appropriate for this as it aggregates interdisciplinary indicators of geographical risk from society, health systems, and financial markets, ultimately simplifying preliminary analysis for investors without having to browse through volumes of individual macroeconomic indicators. Also, we extend this towards public health organisations, academia specialising in the socio-economy, and the general public for the purposes of general interest, trend identification, or country-response effectiveness. They can get relevant information on the socioeconomic impact of COVID-19 on the nation and improve crisis prevention through the application of analysis data.

To achieve our goals and objectives, we have assigned tasks based on each team member’s disciplinary views and strengths. In this case, our group needs professional advice in economics and science. More specifically, Data science mainly deals with the history of data to explain what happened or predict what will happen. Therefore, data science students will be relatively standardized and accurate in analyzing data. Also, data science students can give fairly reasonable suggestions on the innovation of ideas from the feasibility and complexity of the code, whether it is generating data, tuning the methodology, or deploying the product. However, compared with students in business-related disciplines, they are more sensitive to the rigour and accuracy of data. In addition, in the learning process of business-related subjects, they may be adapted to observation and innovation. At the same time, they may be good at writing reports. Since our group members are all studying data science and commerce-related majors, we distribute content based on each person’s expertise and preferences.

## Methodology

To create the rebound score, the group has considered multiple variables and datasets produced by organisations around the world. Ultimately, the list was reduced to nine variables, trading off with unreliable data missingness that reduces our country mix size when adding more variables. The datasets used are from reputable data collection organisations: Our World in Data (OWID), NUMBEO and Google. Meanwhile, the “price index” was manually created by curating several stock market indexes from various countries. The variables chosen represent the 3 key categories: health, societies, and financial economies. Our model consists of 61 countries. These countries were chosen as they all retained sufficient volumes of non-missing data across our nine variables after considering the trade-off between adding more variables for rebound score meaningfulness, and increasing the amount of unreliable data missingness of which we must unintuitively appropriate.

## Results

The Shiny app which shows various aspects of each country is deployed and the final rebound score is calculated. Although the rebound score’s weight of each component is not determined by a mathematical algorithm, the result ranking of each country still showed reasonableness and usefulness. We found that Lowy Institute also gave a similar indicator, and so we compared our results with Lowy’s - not completely equivalent of course but several countries that topped Lowy’s ranking also mastered our ranking, including New Zealand, Thailand, and Estonia. Our visualisations used line charts since it reflects trends of time-series development well.

Investors can use our dashboard to check rebound score and individual variable trend comparisons among several key countries to assist in assessing current geographical risk profiles in the short-term. Socioeconomic researchers may also use the dashboard since it reflects various key health and societal indicators - smoothed options are also provided. Although not in-depth, this can provide preliminary assessments and points of further research into determining fatal trends in various countries so that they might issue warnings to top government officials, political figures and to the general public.

## Discussion

However, our methodologies has its weaknesses. First of all, the procured financial data is affected by systematic issues that could not be easily overcome. Although we look at all stock market opening days from March 20, 2020, to April 19, 2021, and select all weekdays for country-over-country comparison, special circumstances still occur - each country still has their unique holidays and events when the stock market is closed for trading. Consequently, the price changes may not coincide with the correct date, but the trend itself is retained. Then there is the problem of index selection of which lack of consistency in how different countries’ indexes are formed (whether top 50, 100, or 300 big companies) led to potential lack of consistencies in our underlying price data. On another hand, the weighting methods used to calculate our rebound score is non-algorithmic which may represent bias in our analysis. The available utilities on the visualisation dashboard may also be too simplified for investor purposes past basic preliminary judgement. Finally, the concept of the “rebound” component of our rebound score may be arbitrary in nature - there lacks distinctive qualities that justify our score as one that measures socioeconomic rebound from pre-pandemic environments rather than a simple daily measurement of the socioeconomy. Nonetheless, our model still retains its usefulness for our target audiences.

In terms of the robustness and generalisability of our model, future use of this visualisation will require updates to various date inputs in our model, including the custom-procured financial index data - functions that users themselves cannot control. Also, our model was developed primarily with covid effects in mind, such that the application of our visualisations into other contexts may be questionable (especially due to weighting decisions). Together, the older the model becomes, the less applicable it will become, however, still applicable in the short-term.

Our group has a relatively narrow disciplinary mix, only business-related disciplines and data science. It pushes us to come up with similar ideas and thoughts. We did not encounter problems or differences in views in the completion process that we could not solve. In the future, different works will be various according to the workgroup discipline composition. For our data science students, we may need to focus more on the rigour of data and the realization of ideas more comprehensively. For business-related majors, we need to focus more on data accuracy. In addition, for both disciplines, it is necessary to focus on the innovation of ideas. Use the subject’s logical thinking to analyze the concept and the in-depth subject knowledge to realize the concept.

## Conclusion

This report explores the socio-economic impact of COVID-19 on different countries and related methodologies to assist retail and institutional investors with preliminary analysis into geographic investment risk in the short-term. We create a visualisation dashboard (Shiny app) that presents various indicators as a single socio-economic variable (rebound score). Our results show logical and agreeable rankings of countries which will be useful to consolidate understandings for investors, as well as socioeconomic researchers and the general public. For the visualization, we chose line graphs that reflect well the trend of time series development. Various key epidemiological indicators are also provided with smoothing options in the shiny dashboard. In summary, the study results fulfil our basic needs for visualization and comparison, although, with several shortcomings.

In future work, we should understand and apply the graduate quality of interdisciplinary effectiveness more deeply. We need to listen carefully, think and summarize the many different perspectives across disciplines to do teamwork effectively. For our data science students, we are supposed to use data to learn knowledge, dig deeper into valuable data and ultimately generate data products that provide us with solutions and answers.

## Reference

Our World in Data (2021). Retrieved 6 June 2021, from: https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/tree/master/public/data/

Health Care Index by Country 2021. (2021). Retrieved 6 June 2021, from: https://www.numbeo.com/health-care/rankings_by_country.jsp

Investing.com Australia - Financial News, Stock Quotes & Charts. (2021). Retrieved 6 June 2021, from: https://au.investing.com/

COVID-19 Community Mobility Report. (2021). Retrieved 6 June 2021, from: https://www.google.com/covid19/mobility/

## Appendix

This appendix will contain all the code used to clean and transform our datasets. This will be split into three main components: the filtering code, the cleaning code, and the transformation code. These will not be run here as to reduce computation time for the overall report, however, has been thoroughly tested on our end during this report’s construction - simply copy the code (with the accompanying files and appropriate file path names) to the marker’s end, or change the “eval=FALSE” chunk functions to “eval=TRUE”.

Additionally, the Shiny application code will be featured here (also not run), however, if the marker wishes to run it locally rather than access the link provided under the Shiny Visualisation Dashboard section, then we recommend running the shiny R file individually and running the app from there - app.R.
